[NUI]  Public APIs Copy, Cut, Paste and SelectText (#1736)
Samsung/tizen-docs: docs/application/dotnet/guides/user-interface/nui/text.md

| `TranslatableText`                 | String      | Specifies the `TranslatableText` property that sets the SID value. |

> ### Use public APIs to copy, cut, paste, and select text in TextField or TextEditor

Reviewer: Hello @shrouqsabah, I had a query regarding the heading.
The heading here seems to be a bit too long, we recommend using something concise for headings.

In this case, could you please clarify if the heading should emphasize the functionality of **Copy, cut, paste, and select text** or the usage of **public APIs**? Depending on your clarification I can provide an alternate for the heading or it would be better if you could change the heading to something concise.

Thank you.

Author: Hello @omar-srbd ,
We need to explain how to use APIs.
Here's the original request from ACR. 
**TCSACR-455** : ` Please add how to use new APIs. When you update the API guides, it will be good if you add how to use SelectedText API `.

Let's me know what you suggest :)
Thanks

Author: @omar-srbd  What do you think about this ( **How to use Clipboard APIs with Select Text** )?

Reviewer: @shrouqsabah,

I have left another review incorporating your suggestion for the heading.
Please look into it and update accordingly.

Thanks.

> ### Use public APIs to copy, cut, paste, and select text in TextField or TextEditor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to use clipboard APIs with select text
```

Author: Done.

A set of APIs that provide developers with the functionality of copy, cut, paste & select text.
A sample code on how to benefit from them is shown below.

Developers can define an action for users by writing the code below, i.e. when the user clicks a button.

The following code is an example on how to copy and cut the text from source to destination text fields:

```csharp
// Create two TextField
var textFieldSrc = new TextField(); // Source TextField
textFieldSrc.Text = "Welcome! This is a great world!";

var textFieldDest = new TextField(); // Destination TextField
textFieldDest.Text = "";

```

`SelectText` is an API that takes two parameters, the start index and the end index.
This API selects text based on the start and end index declared by the user.
The following code shows how to use `SelectText` on `TextField`:

```csharp

> // Step 01: Select text from source text filed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Step 01: Select text from source text field
```

Author: Done.

textFieldSrc.SelectText (9,15); //"This is" is the selected text

 // At this point:
 // The TEXT in textFieldSrc is "Welcome! This is a great world!"
 // The TEXT in textFieldDest is ""

```

`TextUtils.CopyToClipboard` is an API that takes one parameter, either TextField or TextEditor.
Using this API, you can copy the text into the clipboard that was selected based on the declared indexes in the previous code.
The following code shows how to use `CopyToClipboard` with `TextField`:

```csharp

> // Step 02: Copy text from source text filed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Step 02: Copy text from source text field
```

Author: Done.

 string copiedText = TextUtils.CopyToClipboard(textFieldSrc);

 // At this point:
 // The TEXT in textFieldSrc is "Welcome! This is a great world!"
 // The TEXT in textFieldDest is ""

```

`TextUtils.PasteTo` is an API that takes one parameter, either TextField or TextEditor.
Using this API, you can paste the most recently copied/cut text item from the clipboard into the text control.

   > [!NOTE]
   > The pasted text will be inserted in the current cursor position and if the text control has no focus, the text will be appended to the last cursor position and the text control will gain focus. If some text inside the text control is selected, it will be replaced by the pasted text.

The following code shows how to use `PasteTo` with `TextField`:

```csharp

> // Step 03: Paste text into destination text filed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Step 03: Paste text into destination text field
```

Author: Done.

 TextUtils.PasteTo(textFieldDest);

 // At this point:
 // The TEXT in textFieldSrc is "Welcome! This is a great world!"
 // The TEXT in textFieldDest is "This is"

```

`TextUtils.CutToClipboard` is an API that takes one parameter, either TextField or TextEditor.
This API helps you to cut the previously selected text from the text control into the clipboard. It returns the text that was cut based on the declared indexes.
The following codes show how to use `CutToClipboard` with `TextField`:

```csharp

> // Step 04: Select text from source text filed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Step 04: Select text from source text field
```

Author: Done.

> textFieldSrc.SelectText (0,8); // "Welcome!" is the selected text

Reviewer: I have a doubt regarding the selected text based on the declared indexes (0,8).
According to your declared indexes, the selected text should not include a **space** after the **exclamation mark (!)**.
Can you please check this?
```suggestion
textFieldSrc.SelectText (0,7); // "Welcome!" is the selected text
```

Author: Checked.
I added the below note for description of SelectText. And fixed the first example:
`
   > [!NOTE]
   > The selected text includes the start index.
   > But, the selected text does not include the end index.

textFieldSrc.SelectText (9,16); //"This is" is the selected text
`

 // At this point:
 // The TEXT in textFieldSrc is "Welcome! This is a great world!"
 // The TEXT in textFieldDest is "This is"

```

```csharp

> // Step 05: Cut text from source text filed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Step 05: Cut text from source text field
```

Author: Done.

 string cutText = TextUtils.CutToClipboard(textFieldSrc);

 // At this point:
 // The TEXT in textFieldSrc is " This is a great world!"
 // The TEXT in textFieldDest is "This is"
```

```csharp

> // Step 06: Paste text into destination text filed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Step 06: Paste text into destination text field
```

Author: Done.

| `TranslatableText`                 | String      | Specifies the `TranslatableText` property that sets the SID value. |

> ### Use public APIs copy, cut, paste and select text in TextField or TextEditor

Author: Done.

> ### Use public APIs Copy, Cut, Paste and SelectedText in TextField or TextEditor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use public APIs copy, cut, paste and select text in TextField or TextEditor
```

Author: Done.

A set of APIs that provide developers with the functionality of copy, cut, paste & select text.
A sample code on how to benefit from them is shown below.

Developers can define an action for users by writing the code below.

> I.e. when the user clicks on a button.

Author: Done.

> The example shows how to copy and cut the text from source to destination text-fields

Author: Done.

> The following code is an example to copy and cut the text from source to destination text fields:

Author: Done.

```csharp
// Create two TextField
var textFieldSrc = new TextField(); // Source TextField
textFieldSrc.Text = "Welcome! This is a great world!";

var textFieldDest = new TextField(); // Destination TextField
textFieldDest.Text = "";

```

`SelectText` is API takes two parameters start-index and end-index.
Select text from start to end index.

> How to use `SelectText` on `TextField`:

Author: Done.

```csharp
// Step 01: Select text from source text filed
textFieldSrc.SelectText (9,15); //"This is" is the selected text

 // At this point:
 // The TEXT in textFieldSrc is "Welcome! This is a great world!"
 // The TEXT in textFieldDest is ""

```

> `TextUtils.copyToClipboard` is an API that takes one parameter, either TextField or TextEditor.

Reviewer: Please revert this change to `TextUtils.CopyToClipboard`, I had a misconception about the API.
```suggestion
`TextUtils.CopyToClipboard` is an API that takes one parameter, either TextField or TextEditor.
```

Author: Done.

Copy the previously selected text from the text control into the clipboard. Return the copied text.

> How to use `CopyToClipboard` with `TextField`:

Author: Done.

```csharp
// Step 02: Copy text from source text filed
 string copiedText = TextUtils.CopyToClipboard(textFieldSrc);

 // At this point:
 // The TEXT in textFieldSrc is "Welcome! This is a great world!"
 // The TEXT in textFieldDest is ""

```

`TextUtils.PasteTo (text-control)` is API takes one parameter textField/textEditor.

> Paste the most recently copied/cut text item from the clipboard into the text control.

Author: Done.

> `TextUtils.pasteTo` is an API that takes one parameter, either TextField or TextEditor.

Reviewer: Please revert this change to `TextUtils.PasteTo`, I had a misconception about the API.
```suggestion
`TextUtils.PasteTo` is an API that takes one parameter, either TextField or TextEditor.
```

Author: Done.

   > [!NOTE]
   > The pasted text will be inserted in the current cursor position and if the text control has no focus, the text will be appended to the last cursor position and the text control will gain focus. If some text inside the text control is selected, it will be replaced by the pasted text.

> How to use `PasteTo` with `TextField`:

Author: Done.

```csharp
// Step 03: Paste text into destination text filed
 TextUtils.PasteTo(textFieldDest);

 // At this point:
 // The TEXT in textFieldSrc is "Welcome! This is a great world!"
 // The TEXT in textFieldDest is "This is"

```

`TextUtils.CutToClipboard (text-control)` is API takes one parameter textField/textEditor.
Cut the previously selected text from the text control into the clipboard. Return the cut text.

> How to use `CutToClipboard` with `TextField`:

Author: Done.

> `TextUtils.cutToClipboard` is an API that takes one parameter, either TextField or TextEditor.

Reviewer: Please revert this change to `TextUtils.CutToClipboard`, I had a misconception about the API.
```suggestion
`TextUtils.CutToClipboard` is an API that takes one parameter, either TextField or TextEditor.
```

Author: Done.

| `TranslatableText`                 | String      | Specifies the `TranslatableText` property that sets the SID value. |

> ## How to use clipboard APIs with select text

Reviewer 2: @shrouqsabah Hello. Hope you are well!

After checking before merging, I have a query regarding this PR.

In the heading, you have mentioned `SelectedText`, but in your changes here, you have written `SelectText` API. From what I have observed, `SelectText` is the appropriate name, as mentioned [here](https://docs.tizen.org/application/dotnet/api/TizenFX/latest/api/Tizen.NUI.BaseComponents.TextField.html#Tizen_NUI_BaseComponents_TextField_SelectText_System_Int32_System_Int32_). Can you please confirm if it should be `SelectedText` API or `SelectText` API?

Author: @safir-srbd , Hello, I hope you well too.
Yes, you are right. It should be ```SelectText```. 
I will update title.

Reviewer 2: @shrouqsabah Thank you for your response!

In that case, I have a heading suggestion for this section which would be more aligned with the rest of the titles in this document. 
What do you think of "Use clipboard and SelectText APIs" as the heading?
If it seems ok, please update it and we can merge this PR.

| `TranslatableText`                 | String      | Specifies the `TranslatableText` property that sets the SID value. |

## How to use clipboard APIs with select text

A set of APIs that provide developers with the functionality of copy, cut, paste & select text.
A sample code on how to benefit from them is shown below.

Developers can define an action for users by writing the code below, i.e. when the user clicks a button.

The following code is an example on how to copy and cut the text from source to destination text fields:

```csharp
// Create two TextField
var textFieldSrc = new TextField(); // Source TextField
textFieldSrc.Text = "Welcome! This is a great world!";

var textFieldDest = new TextField(); // Destination TextField
textFieldDest.Text = "";

```

`SelectText` is an API that takes two parameters, the start index and the end index.
This API selects text based on the start and end index declared by the user.
   > [!NOTE]

>    > The selected text includes the start index.
>    > But, the selected text does not include the end index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   > The selected text includes the start index, but it does not include the end index.
```

Author: @omar-srbd ,
Done. Thank you,
